ion-implantation/pysrim.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: pysrim
description: Automation, analysis, and plotting of SRIM calculations
parent: Ion Implantation
---

# `pysrim`
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta}

1. TOC
{:toc}

## Introduction

The [Python] package `pysrim` provides a slick and convenient way of scripting
some of the tedious aspects involed with running many similar `SRIM`
calculations. Its key strength is it provides a convenient interface to 
programatically define the calculation input. This is particularly
advantageous as it:

- allows for easy "batch" calculations where a few simulation parameters are
  systematically varied (e.g., the ion implantation energy).
- allows the use of `for` loops when creat multilayered heterostructures, which
  is arduous otherwise.
- makes the record of the calculation <i>much</i> more readable than `SRIM`'s
  own custom (and dated) input format.

It even works well when running on [Linux]
(i.e., it automatically calls `wine SRIM.exe`, `wine TRIM.exe`, etc.)!

As a bonus, it also has a short paper that can be cited:

---

<dl>
    <dt>Title</dt>
        <dd>pysrim: automation, analysis, and plotting of SRIM calculations</dd>
    <dt>Author</dt>
        <dd>C. Ostrouchov, Y. Zhang, W. J. Weber</dd>
    <dt>Journal</dt>
        <dd>J. Open Source Software</dd>
    <dt>Volume</dt>
        <dd>3</dd>
    <dt>Issue</dt>
        <dd>28</dd>
    <dt>Pages</dt>
        <dd>829</dd>
    <dt>Year</dt>
        <dd>2018</dd>
    <dt><i class="ai ai-doi"></i></dt>
        <dd><a href="https://doi.org/10.21105/joss.00829">10.21105/joss.00829</a></dd>
    <dt><i class="fab fa-gitlab"></i></dt>
        <dd><a href="https://gitlab.com/costrouc/pysrim">costrouc/pysrim</a></dd>
</dl>

---

## Example: a multi-layered heterostructure

Here I give an example showcasing `pysrim`'s capabilities.
The script below creates a target with a complex layered structure
(one that would be particularly unpleasent construct "by hand")
and runs several `TRIM` calculations for a single ion at
a few different implantation energies.
Conveniently, the script takes care of moving all the results to
their own (new) folder after each calculation completes.

{% highlight python %}
{% include_relative heterostructure.py %}
{% endhighlight %}

Try it out yourself!

Download [`heterostructure.py`]({% link ion-implantation/heterostructure.py %}).

## Caveats

`pysrim`, unfortunately, isn't perfect and I ran into the following issues while
using it:

- Everytime it runs, it complains that the `.yaml` file it's reading isn't done
  safely. This is due to a recent change in `pyYAML`, requiring a `Loader` to be
  specified as a `kwarg`. There is currently a
  [merge request](https://gitlab.com/costrouc/pysrim/-/merge_requests/4) on the
  project's [GitLab] page (<https://gitlab.com/costrouc/pysrim>) to fix this,
  but until this gets officially patched it can be mended by editing line 10 of
  `srim/core/elemementdb.py` so that it reads:

{% highlight python %}
return yaml.load(open(dbpath, "r"), Loader=yaml.SafeLoader)
{% endhighlight %}

- It fails to parse `IONIZ.txt` output when the ion energy is less than 1 keV.
  The problem is with the regex expression used to parse the output. As a simple
  workaround, rather than fixing the problem, it is sufficient to just comment
  out line 36 of `srim/output.py` so that it reads:

{% highlight python %}
# raise SRIMOutputParseError("unable to extract ion from file")
{% endhighlight %}

- The autosave input in `TRIM` setup does not appear to work; the calculation
  won't run if the `kwarg` is specified. This is relatively minor, so my
  workaround is to just avoid providing the parameter.

- SRIM's default values for (element specific) displacement, lattice, and
  surface binding energies do not appear to be used automatically and need to
  specified manually.

- Bragg corrections are not implemented on a per-layer basis. This is relatively
  easy to fix by editing lines 42-48 in `srim/core/layer.py` to read:

{% highlight python %}
    def __init__(self, elements, density, width, phase=0, name=None, bragg_correction=1.0):
        """Creation of Layer from elements, density, width, phase, and
name"""
        self.width = width
        self.name = name
        self.bragg_correction = bragg_correction
        super(Layer, self).__init__(elements, density, phase)
{% endhighlight %}

  as well as lines 150-153 in `srim/input.py` to read:

{% highlight python %}
    def _write_bragg_correction(self):
        return (
            'Target Compound Corrections (Bragg)'
        ) + self.newline + ' ' + ' '.join([str(layer.bragg_correction) for layer in self._trim.target.layers]) + self.newline
{% endhighlight %}

[Python]: https://www.python.org/
[Linux]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux
[GitLab]: https://about.gitlab.com/

Commit message:

add fix for pysrim's failure to parse results with no ions stopped in the target

ion-implantation/pysrim.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: pysrim
description: Automation, analysis, and plotting of SRIM calculations
parent: Ion Implantation
---

# `pysrim`
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta}

1. TOC
{:toc}

## Introduction

The [Python] package `pysrim` provides a slick and convenient way of scripting
some of the tedious aspects involed with running many similar `SRIM`
calculations. Its key strength is it provides a convenient interface to 
programatically define the calculation input. This is particularly
advantageous as it:

- allows for easy "batch" calculations where a few simulation parameters are
  systematically varied (e.g., the ion implantation energy).
- allows the use of `for` loops when creat multilayered heterostructures, which
  is arduous otherwise.
- makes the record of the calculation <i>much</i> more readable than `SRIM`'s
  own custom (and dated) input format.

It even works well when running on [Linux]
(i.e., it automatically calls `wine SRIM.exe`, `wine TRIM.exe`, etc.)!

As a bonus, it also has a short paper that can be cited:

---

<dl>
    <dt>Title</dt>
        <dd>pysrim: automation, analysis, and plotting of SRIM calculations</dd>
    <dt>Author</dt>
        <dd>C. Ostrouchov, Y. Zhang, W. J. Weber</dd>
    <dt>Journal</dt>
        <dd>J. Open Source Software</dd>
    <dt>Volume</dt>
        <dd>3</dd>
    <dt>Issue</dt>
        <dd>28</dd>
    <dt>Pages</dt>
        <dd>829</dd>
    <dt>Year</dt>
        <dd>2018</dd>
    <dt><i class="ai ai-doi"></i></dt>
        <dd><a href="https://doi.org/10.21105/joss.00829">10.21105/joss.00829</a></dd>
    <dt><i class="fab fa-gitlab"></i></dt>
        <dd><a href="https://gitlab.com/costrouc/pysrim">costrouc/pysrim</a></dd>
</dl>

---

## Example: a multi-layered heterostructure

Here I give an example showcasing `pysrim`'s capabilities.
The script below creates a target with a complex layered structure
(one that would be particularly unpleasent construct "by hand")
and runs several `TRIM` calculations for a single ion at
a few different implantation energies.
Conveniently, the script takes care of moving all the results to
their own (new) folder after each calculation completes.

{% highlight python %}
{% include_relative heterostructure.py %}
{% endhighlight %}

Try it out yourself!

Download [`heterostructure.py`]({% link ion-implantation/heterostructure.py %}).

## Caveats

`pysrim`, unfortunately, isn't perfect and I ran into the following issues while
using it:

- Everytime it runs, it complains that the `.yaml` file it's reading isn't done
  safely. This is due to a recent change in `pyYAML`, requiring a `Loader` to be
  specified as a `kwarg`. There is currently a
  [merge request](https://gitlab.com/costrouc/pysrim/-/merge_requests/4) on the
  project's [GitLab] page (<https://gitlab.com/costrouc/pysrim>) to fix this,
  but until this gets officially patched it can be mended by editing line 10 of
  `srim/core/elemementdb.py` so that it reads:

{% highlight python %}
return yaml.load(open(dbpath, "r"), Loader=yaml.SafeLoader)
{% endhighlight %}

- It fails to parse `IONIZ.txt` output when the ion energy is less than 1 keV.
  The problem is with the regex expression used to parse the output. As a simple
  workaround, rather than fixing the problem, it is sufficient to just comment
  out line 36 of `srim/output.py` so that it reads:

{% highlight python %}
# raise SRIMOutputParseError("unable to extract ion from file")
{% endhighlight %}

- The autosave input in `TRIM` setup does not appear to work; the calculation
  won't run if the `kwarg` is specified. This is relatively minor, so my
  workaround is to just avoid providing the parameter.

- SRIM's default values for (element specific) displacement, lattice, and
  surface binding energies do not appear to be used automatically and need to
  specified manually.

- Bragg corrections are not implemented on a per-layer basis. This is relatively
  easy to fix by editing lines 42-48 in `srim/core/layer.py` to read:

{% highlight python %}
    def __init__(self, elements, density, width, phase=0, name=None, bragg_correction=1.0):
        """Creation of Layer from elements, density, width, phase, and
name"""
        self.width = width
        self.name = name
        self.bragg_correction = bragg_correction
        super(Layer, self).__init__(elements, density, phase)
{% endhighlight %}

  as well as lines 150-153 in `srim/input.py` to read:

{% highlight python %}
    def _write_bragg_correction(self):
        return (
            'Target Compound Corrections (Bragg)'
        ) + self.newline + ' ' + ' '.join([str(layer.bragg_correction) for layer in self._trim.target.layers]) + self.newline
{% endhighlight %}

- `pysrim` fails to parse simulation results where no ions stop in the target.
  At least the fix is easy - simply comment out the exception raised on line 72
  in `srim.py`.

[Python]: https://www.python.org/
[Linux]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux
[GitLab]: https://about.gitlab.com/
