srim/pysrim.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: pysrim
description: Automation, analysis, and plotting of SRIM calculations
parent: SRIM
---

# pysrim
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta}

1. TOC
{:toc}

## Introduction

The Python package `pysrim` provides a slick and convenient way of scripting
some of the tedious aspects involed with running many similar `SRIM`
calculations. Its key strength is it provides a convenient interface to 
programatically define the calculation input. This is particularly
advantageous as it:

- allows for easy batch calculations where a few sim params are systematically
  varied (e.g., the ion implantation energy).
- enables the use of `for` loops to create multilayered heterostructures, which
  is painful to do otherwise.
- makes the record of the calculation <i>much</i> more readable than `SRIM`'s
  own custom input format.

It even works well when running on Linux
(i.e., it automatically calls `wine SRIM.exe`, `wine TRIM.exe`, etc.)!


## Caveats

`pysrim`, unfortunately, isn't perfect and I ran into the following issues while
using it:

- Everytime it runs, it complains that the `.yaml` file its reading isn't do  ne
  safely. This is due to a recent change in `pyYAML` requiring a `Loader` to be
  specified as a `kwarg`. There is currently a
  [merge request](https://gitlab.com/costrouc/pysrim/-/merge_requests/4) on the
  project's GitLab page to fix this, but until this gets officially patched it
  can be mended by editing line 10 of `srim/core/elemementdb.py` so that it
  reads:
  {% highlight python %}
  return yaml.load(open(dbpath, "r"), Loader=yaml.SafeLoader)
  {% endhighlight %}
- It fails to parse `IONIZ.txt` output when the ion energy is less than 1 keV.
  The problem is with the regex expression used to parse the output. As a simple
  workaround, rather than fixing the problem, it is sufficient to just comment
  out line 36 of `srim/output.py` so that it reads:
  {% highlight python %}
  # raise SRIMOutputParseError("unable to extract ion from file")
  {% endhighlight %}
- The autosave input in `TRIM` setup does not appear to work; the calculation
  won't run if the `kwarg` is specified. This is relatively minor, so my
  workaround is to just avoid providing the parameter.

## Example

### Heterostructure

{% highlight python %}
{% include_relative heterostructure.py %}
{% endhighlight %}

Commit message:

update the notes on pysrim and the heterostructure target example

srim/pysrim.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: pysrim
description: Automation, analysis, and plotting of SRIM calculations
parent: SRIM
---

# pysrim
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta}

1. TOC
{:toc}

## Introduction

The Python package `pysrim` provides a slick and convenient way of scripting
some of the tedious aspects involed with running many similar `SRIM`
calculations. Its key strength is it provides a convenient interface to 
programatically define the calculation input. This is particularly
advantageous as it:

- allows for easy "batch" calculations where a few simulation parameters are
  systematically varied (e.g., the ion implantation energy).
- allows the use of `for` loops when creat multilayered heterostructures, which
  is arduous otherwise.
- makes the record of the calculation <i>much</i> more readable than `SRIM`'s
  own custom (and dated) input format.

It even works well when running on Linux
(i.e., it automatically calls `wine SRIM.exe`, `wine TRIM.exe`, etc.)!


## Caveats

`pysrim`, unfortunately, isn't perfect and I ran into the following issues while
using it:

- Everytime it runs, it complains that the `.yaml` file its reading isn't done
  safely. This is due to a recent change in `pyYAML` requiring a `Loader` to be
  specified as a `kwarg`. There is currently a
  [merge request](https://gitlab.com/costrouc/pysrim/-/merge_requests/4) on the
  project's GitLab page to fix this, but until this gets officially patched it
  can be mended by editing line 10 of `srim/core/elemementdb.py` so that it
  reads:

{% highlight python %}
return yaml.load(open(dbpath, "r"), Loader=yaml.SafeLoader)
{% endhighlight %}

- It fails to parse `IONIZ.txt` output when the ion energy is less than 1 keV.
  The problem is with the regex expression used to parse the output. As a simple
  workaround, rather than fixing the problem, it is sufficient to just comment
  out line 36 of `srim/output.py` so that it reads:

{% highlight python %}
# raise SRIMOutputParseError("unable to extract ion from file")
{% endhighlight %}

- The autosave input in `TRIM` setup does not appear to work; the calculation
  won't run if the `kwarg` is specified. This is relatively minor, so my
  workaround is to just avoid providing the parameter.

## Example: a multi-layered heterostructure

Here I give an example showcasing `pysrim`'s capabilities.
The script below creates a target with a complex layered structure, which would
be unpleasent to do "by hand", and runs several `TRIM` calculations for a single
ion at a few different implantation energies. Conveniently, the script takes
care of moving all the results their own (new) folder after each calculations
completes.

Try it out yourself!

{% highlight python %}
{% include_relative heterostructure.py %}
{% endhighlight %}
